3mdeb contrib q1 (#232)
3mdeb/news-and-ideas: blog/content/post/2020-04-16-3mdeb-contrib-Q1.md

---
title: 3mdeb contribution 2020'Q1 - coreboot ports all over the place.
abstract: The starter of the new series - 3mdeb contribution summary! First
          quarter of 2020 brings many new merged patches. Check the samples of
          code that we succesfully contributed and feel free to use them in your
          own projects.
cover: /covers/combined-logos.png
author: artur.raglis
layout: post
published: true
date: 2020-04-16
archives: "2020"

tags:
  - contribution
  - open-source

categories:
  - Miscellaneous

---

## Intro

Our mission @3mdeb is to develop secure and maintainable firmware and
applications helping our clients reach their goals. During everyday work
sometimes we struggle with frustrating problems that shouldn't occur in the
first place. When we finally deal with the issues, the first thing we want to do

> is to share the good news with the related community. This is our main

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is to share the good news with the related communities. This is our main
```

    Michał Żygowski    | intel/braswell      | Generate microcode binaries from tree | [link][5]
    Michał Żygowski    | intel/braswell      | Include smbios.h for Type9 Entries | [link][6]

    ---

    ![TrenchBoot logo](/covers/trenchboot-logo.png)

2. [TrenchBoot/landing-zone](https://github.com/TrenchBoot/landing-zone/)

    > TrenchBoot is a framework that allows individuals and projects to build
    > security engines to perform launch integrity actions for their systems.
    > The framework builds upon Boot Integrity Technologies (BITs) that
    > establish one or more Roots of Trust (RoT) from which a degree of
    > confidence that integrity actions were not subverted.

    Full list of 2020'Q1 patches:

    Author          | Category | Patch | URL
    ----------------|----------|-------|----
    Krystian Hebel  | Build    | Move bootloader data out of measured block | [link][39]
    Krystian Hebel  | Build    | Use more hidden symbols to fix 32bit boot | [link][40]
    Michał Żygowski | Security | Add sha256 | [link][41]
    Michał Żygowski | README   | Add basic readme with Travis build status | [link][42]

>     Krystian Hebel  | Main     | Move PCR extension logic to a separate function | [link][43]

Reviewer: @artur-rs I though there was my patch also, but may it was merged before Q1?

Author: @pietrushnic it is marked as `7/22/2019`

    ----

    ![ACPICA logo](/img/acpica-logo.png)

3. [acpica](https://github.com/acpica/acpica)

    > The ACPI Component Architecture (ACPICA) project provides an open-source
    > operating system-independent implementation of the Advanced Configuration
    > and Power Interface specification (ACPI)

    Full list of 2020'Q1 patches:

    Author          | Patch | URL
    ----------------|-------|----
    Michał Żygowski | Implement IVRS IVHD type 11h parsing | [link][44]

    ---

    ![Yocto Project Logo](/img/YoctoProject_Logo_RGB.jpg)

4. [meta-virtualization](https://git.yoctoproject.org/cgit/cgit.cgi/meta-virtualization/)

    > This layer enables hypervisor, virtualization tool stack, and cloud
    > support.

    Full list of 2020'Q1 patches:

    Author     | Category | Patch | URL
    -----------|----------|-------|----

>     Piotr Król | dev86    | Implement IVRS IVHD type 11h parsing | [link][45]

Reviewer: @artur-rs copy paster error, patch description incorrect

[Dell OptiPlex 9010 SFF][pr3], [SMSC SCH5545][pr4], [intel/bd82x6x missing power
button events][pr5], [SeaBIOS fix][pr6] and intruder detection system
([patch1][pr7], [patch2][pr8], [patch3][pr9])! Below you can find a little
demonstration what it is all about:

<div style="display:table;margin:auto">{{< tweet 1247072310324080640 >}}</div>

## Last but not least news

Do you want to read more about our contribution? Feeling that you are missing
information about open projects that we are developing and maintaining? Finally,
we can announce that all open source related activities and achievements are
available to visit at newly created subdomain
[opensource.3mdeb.com](https://opensource.3mdeb.com/).

Feel free to comment on which projects missing out there and we will surely look
into the details of pointed technologies. Also, if you have any questions
regarding the basics of the contribution process or simply want to send your
first patches to the world of the open source IT but you lack the courage to do
so, we will be glad to help you out.

## Summary

Do you still hesitate to be a part of the open source community? By contribution

> you not only share valuable code but improve your software by the experienced
> reviewers, take part in the act of learning and teaching by explaining how you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you not only share valuable code but improve your software through review of
experienced community members, take part in the act of learning and teaching by explaining how you
```

do things in the example project and build a reputation around people who are

> interested in similar things. Do not wait and join the open source family!

Reviewer: @artur-rs second sentence of this paragraph is way too long, let's split it.

open source community and help developers and enthusiasts with samples of codes.
The positive feedback from the users is the priceless reward that drives us to
spread the habit of contributing to open source projects. This post will start
the series of 3mdeb contribution summary posts that will be released at the end
of each quarter. Let's dive into the world of open code!

## 2020'Q1 - the king of coreboot?

In the first 3 months of 2020, we contributed `7130` lines of code (except the
patches that have not been merged yet) getting in total over `16k`
[SLOC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Source_lines_of_code) in `34` unique
projects so far.

Let's introduce the new changes:

![coreboot logo](/covers/coreboot-logo.svg)

1. [coreboot](https://coreboot.org/)

    >  coreboot is an extended firmware platform that delivers a lightning fast
    >  and secure boot experience on modern computers and embedded systems. As
    >  an Open Source project it provides auditability and maximum control over
    >  technology.

    This project is the unquestioned number one in this overview - to sum up,
    the most significant changes:

>     * active development of AMD DRTM

Author: i was not 100% sure about this note, thanks - the patches misleads me
